While obesity rates among young children in the United States appeared to be on the decline a few years ago, a new analysis suggests that it's not time to celebrate just yet.
Despite some previous reports that obesity in children and teens has remained stable or decreased, the study found no evidence of a falloff between 1999 and 2016.
Rather, there was a significant rise in severe obesity among children ages 2 to 5, since around 2013, according to the study published in the journal Pediatrics on Monday.
"A few years ago, there was also some hopeful evidence that obesity rates might be declining for preschool-aged children. Unfortunately, our data, looking at the same age group, show this decline now appears to be reversing," said <n>Asheley Skinner</n>, a health services researcher and associate professor at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina, who was first author of the study.
"This is not surprising, necessarily, but is disheartening. It tells us that our efforts to improve the health of children is not reaching across the country," she said. "We need to improve access to healthy food and physical activity, and do it in a way that recognizes that parents have stressful lives."
Obesity means a person has too much body fat and can increase the risk of diabetes, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, and even some cancers.
In the US, the percentage of children and teens affected by obesity has more than tripled since the 1970s, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It's estimated that nearly one in five children and teens are obese. But obesity is not just an American problem.
In the United Kingdom, obesity is estimated to affect around one in every five children aged 10 to 11. Across the WHO African region, the number of overweight or obese children increased from 4 to 9 million between 1990 and 2016, according to the World Health Organization.
Globally, the number of overweight or obese infants and young children, up to 5 years old, climbed from 32 to 41 million over that same time period, according to WHO. 
The new study used data on obesity rates across the US, between 1999 and 2016, from the CDC's National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey.
The researchers analyzed the data, taking a close look at the prevalence of overweight and obesity among children, 2 to 19.
They found a continuous upward trend of obesity since 1999, with significant increases among young children, 2 to 5, and teen girls, 16 to 19, from 2015 to 2016, compared with previous years.
"This study is important because it reminds us that obesity in children is not going away," <n>Skinner</n> said, adding that there are two reasons why these new findings appear to contradict previous reports.
