It is both what we knew had to happen one day and something no one ever expected to happen.
The key plank of both US and Afghan policy for ending the longest war in American history is that the Taliban must enter into a political process.
But this was often couched with the Taliban's renunciation of violence and distancing from al Qaeda, or a military win for the Afghan-US coalition that would put these allies in a position of strength ahead of negotiations.
Yet on Wednesday, Afghanistan's President <n>Ashraf Ghani</n> swept away over a decade of caveats and said that with no preconditions, the Taliban could be a recognized political party with an office in Kabul. This would be the first time they've had a post in the capital since they ran it in 2001.
Much can change or be rejected, and the demand that women be involved throughout the process may deter an immediate acceptance from Taliban hardliners.
But this staggering change of heart comes just over 30 days since US President <n>Donald Trump</n> said talks were off the table. "I don't think we're prepared to talk right now," he said on January 28. "It's a whole different fight over there. They're killing people left and right. Innocent people are being killed left and right."
Afghanistan is the only part of US foreign policy this commander in chief has made a specific and detailed policy speech on. He has pledged to win -- but has been sketchy on how.
Yet this statement in January dismayed some US officials who had long accepted the need to encourage talks and not dismiss them out of hand. (Yes, the US proscribes the Taliban as a terrorist group, but peace talks were always meant to be an Afghan-only affair, surmounting that hurdle).
Afghan security officials echoed <n>Trump</n>'s sentiment, as it came after a series of ghastly Taliban and ISIS attacks in the heart of the capital
But now, suddenly, we have <n>Ashraf Ghani</n>, in the face of political turmoil in his unity government and demands for elections sooner rather than later, making a stark and unconditional volte face. Why?
