Four years out from the next Winter Games in Beijing, China faces the same challenges as most Olympic hosts -- to build facilities, expand infrastructure and do it all within a budget.
However, an extra challenge exists for the country's communist government -- to create public interest in winter sports among a population that for the moment couldn't care less.
ake skiing, for example.
On any given weekend, thousands of people can be seen out enjoying the snow at Genting Secret Garden Resort, the future site of the Olympics freestyle skiing and snowboarding in Zhangjiakou, Hebei Province, several hours drive northwest of Beijing.
But they are part of a very small group. Only 12.1 million Chinese people skied at least once in 2017, according to a widely cited ski industry white paper in China.
That's less than 1% of China's estimated 1.38 billion total population.
"I have tried to lower my expectation for the Beijing Olympic games because China is still a very beginner ski market," said <n>Charles Zheng</n>, an avid skier who spoke to CNN in between runs.
<n>Zheng</n>, who wrote a book on China's ski industry, says building consumer interest in winter sports is a tough task. But as we have seen before in China's efforts to build its soccer credentials, the Chinese government has no qualms about telling its citizens what sports they should like and participate in.
In 2016, the country's five-year plan specifically highlighted winter sports and directed major investment into the industry.
The government said it wants to have 300 million people involved in some form of winter sports, and create an industry worth at least $160 billion by 2025.
"Even if it's able to achieve only a small percentage of that, that will still go a sizable way to becoming a huge sports economy," said <n>Mark Dreyer</n>, a Beijing-based expert on the Chinese sports industry.
To achieve those lofty goals, the government has taken a series of proactive measures.
Schools across the country have received grants to set up relevant courses for students, according to state-run newspaper China Daily, helping to increase the number of kids participating in ice hockey and figure skating. 
