Just three years ago, as large parts of South Africa struggled to survive a crippling drought and dams dropped to critically low levels, residents of Johannesburg were hit with stringent water restrictions.
However, normal rain patterns returned to Johannesburg in early 2017 and, thankfully, the situation never reached the stage where residents were forced to resort to the extreme measures Cape Town, where I live, has implemented to keep the taps running.
But, by the end of 2017, when the drought was a distant memory, the authorities once again warned that they might have to introduce restrictions to throttle water use, as consumption had soared because of hot weather and wastage.
So last week, when I flew to Johannesburg, which despite the possibility of new restrictions, has been blessed with plentiful rain this summer, I was keen to find out whether people were now treating water as a precious resource.
Just the day before I had read an alarming news report in which experts warned that a combination of increased consumption and delays in infrastructure upgrades could lead to the city's taps running dry in the next few years. While rain over Johannesburg helps fill reservoirs, small dams and privately owned suburban rainwater tanks, Johannesburg's main source of water is the Vaal Dam, which lies 80 miles from the city. The delivery mechanism for bringing the water to the city from the dam is dangerously old and in need of repair.
You must remember -- Johannesburg is the industrial heart of South Africa. And with a population of over 9 million (including surrounding suburbs), its demand for water is also far higher than in Cape Town, with a population of 4 million. But unlike coastal Cape Town, Johannesburg is many hours from the sea, so it has fewer options for accessing potable water: desalinating nearby seawater, for example, is not possible.
Despite all this, as my flight descended in Johannesburg last week, I noticed that the city looked green and vibrant, with small sparkling dams and lakes visible, and hundreds of bright blue swimming pools.
